I was 17 when I chose my career I was
standing outside on a hot summer night
in Florida and just a few miles from the
ocean I was waiting for a miracle to
happen that summer I was privileged to
work as an intern at NASA's Kennedy
Space Center and the miracle I was
waiting for was the launch of the
Columbia space shuttle carrying the
Chandra x-ray Observatory a telescope
that would allow scientists to peer into
the edge of black holes the entire sky
filled with light and it was as if it
was daytime in the middle of the night
soon we could feel the rumble of the
engines vibrating in our chests and it
wasn't a miracle
it was the combined effort of a team of
thousands of people who worked together
to make what seemed impossible a reality
and I wanted to join that team so I
decided to apply to a university where I
could study aerospace engineering and
the following year I started at MIT of
my engineering training and joined a
student project building space robots
and everything was going as I planned
except I was confused about something
important and my confusion arose in my
summer breaks I traveled to a school in
Kenya and there I volunteered with girls
ages 5 to 17 giving them lessons and
English and math and science and they
taught me songs in Swahili and mostly I
just spent time getting to know the
girls enjoying their presents and I saw
that these girls and the leaders in
their community they were overcoming
important barriers to allow these girls
to have
the best possible chances in life and I
wanted to join that team I wanted to be
a part of a team that would help break
down barriers and improve the lives of
girls around the world
I was worried that sitting aerospace
engineering wasn't the most useful
I was worried this team in Kenya
couldn't use the technology I was
learning about space but thankfully I
see learned that I was wrong I came back
an intern at NASA again and this time a
mentor taught me that countries like
Kenya had been involved using space
technology for decades to improve the
life in their own countries and then I
knew that I could have a career in space
and in development this idea is not new
in fact in 1967 the nations of the world
came together to write the outer space
treaty this treaty made a bold statement
saying that the exploration and use of
outer space should be carried on for the
benefit of all peoples irrespective of
their level of economic or scientific
development we have not truly lived up
to this idea although people have worked
for decades to make us a reality
forces such as colonialism and racism
and gender inequality have actually
excluded many people from the benefits
of space and caused us to believe that
space is for the few or the rich or
elite but we cannot afford this attitude
because the world is engaged in a vital
mission to improve life for everyone our
roadmap for this mission comes from the
17 sustainable development goals of the
United Nations all the member states of
the United Nations have agreed that
these are priorities between now and
2030 these goals give us our key moments
and opportunities of our time
opportunities to end extreme poverty to
ensure that everyone has access
to food and clean water we must pursue
these goals as a global community and
technology from space supports
sustainable development and in fact
there are six space services that can
help us pursue the sustainable
development goals over the next few
minutes let's explore these six services
and see examples of just a few of the
goals they help support you ready okay
communication satellites provide access
to phone and Internet service to almost
any location on earth this is
particularly important during times of
disaster recovery when typhoon Haiyan
struck the Philippines the local
communication networks need to be
repaired and teams brought in inflatable
communication antennas that can link to
satellites this was useful during the
time of repair and recovery Positioning
satellites tell us where we are by
telling us where they are that
scientists can use this technology to
track endangered wildlife this turtle
has been fitted with a system that
allows it to receive location
information from positioning satellites
and they send their location information
to scientists for your communication
satellites scientists can use this
knowledge to the Nick better policies
and help determine how to keep these
animals alive earth observation
satellites they tell us what's going on
in our environment now right now there
are about a hundred and fifty satellites
operated by over 60 government agencies
and these are just those observing the
earth and meanwhile companies are adding
to this list most of the government's
provide the data from their satellites
for free online some of these satellites
provide images like this that show what
you would see from a camera this is an
image showing agricultural land in
Kansas however the majority of the Earth
observation satellites don't take
pictures at all
they take measurements and they can buy
these measurements with complex computer
models and make beautiful global
visualizations such as this one showing
the ocean currents and the temperature
Oshin globally or we can look at the
salt and smoke and dust in the
atmosphere or the rainfall and snowfall
globally as well as the annual cycle of
vegetation on land and in the ocean now
scientists can take this information
about the rainfall and the vegetation
and use it to understand what areas on
earth are in danger of a famine or a
drought and provide that information to
aid organizations so they can be
prepared with food aid before the hunger
becomes severe in space we have an
orbiting laboratory on the International
Space Station the vehicle and everything
inside are in a form of freefall around
the Earth and they don't experience the
effect of gravity and because of this we
call it microgravity when astronauts are
in the microgravity environment their
bodies react as if they are aging
rapidly their bones and muscles weaken
and their cardiovascular system and
their immune system change as scientists
study how to keep astronauts healthy in
space we can take the exercises and
techniques we use for astronauts and
transfer them to people on earth to
improve our health here often as we
developed technology for astronauts and
exploration over spacecraft we can also
transfer those inventions to improve
life on Earth here's one of my favorites
it's a water filtration system and a key
component of it is based on the
technology to filter waste water on the
space station it's now being used around
the world space is also an infinite
source of inspiration through education
through research and astronomy and that
age-old experience of star gazing
now countries around the world are
engaging in advancing their own
development by increasing their local
knowledge of engineering and science and
space let's meet some of the world's
newest satellite engineers
this is ellika ABEO from venezuela
ellika is training as a satellite
engineer as part of her national
satellite program in Venezuela
she has designed a software tool that
allows her team to better design the
power systems for engineering this is
Adele Castillo Duran from Philippines
Adele is both a meteorologist and a
satellite engineer and she uses data
from satellites in her weather
forecasting and finally meet hala hala
is from the Sudan and as she was
studying electrical engineering as an
undergraduate in Khartoum she and
several students decide to build their
own satellite and later hala earned a
scholarship to study satellite
engineering at graduate level these
stories that I've shared with you all
illustrate that space truly is useful
for sustainable development for the
benefit of all peoples but we have more
work to do because there are still
barriers that exclude people from space
and limit the impact of this technology
for many people Earth Observation data
is complex and satellite communication
services are too expensive and
microgravity research just appears to be
inaccessible this is what motivates my
work as a professor at MIT Media Lab I
have recently founded a new research
group called space enabled we are
working to tear down these barriers that
limit the benefits of space and we're
also going to develop the future
applications that will continue to
contribute to sustainable development
we'll keep on this work until we can
truly say that space is for the benefit
of all peoples and we are all space
enabled thank you
[Applause]
[Music]